With more than 20 campus locations, ISU Dining makes it easy to find a fresh meal when you need it. Whether you live in the residence halls, an apartment, or off campus we offer meal plans to fit your lifestyle.
Find a Plan That Fits Your Lifestyle
Meal plan requirements are set according to housing locations indicated in the table below. Required meal plan residence halls are Birch, Welch, Roberts, Barton, Lyon, Freeman, Maple, Willow, Larch, Geoffroy, Buchanan, Eaton, Martin, Helser, and Friley.

Cardinal Plan
Enjoy unlimited access to dining centers for breakfast, lunch, dinner, and all the snack times in between without ever counting a single swipe!
Unlimited Dining Center access
Express 2 meals per day
$250 Dining Dollars per semester
5 guest Dining Center Meals per semester
$2736 per semester
Dining Dollars rollover from fall and expire at the end of the spring semester. Additional Dining Dollars may be purchased at any time.

Gold Plan
For those only utilizing the Dining Center a couple times per day, this plan offers essential dining center access with a set amount of swipes.
210 Dining Center Meals per semester
Express 2 meals per day from 210
$250 Dining Dollars per semester
$2570 per semester
Meals expire at the end of each semester. Dining Dollars rollover from fall and expire at the end of the spring semester. Additional Dining Dollars may be purchased at any time.

Campanile Plan
Students re-contracting for a second-year in required meal plan residence halls may select the Campanile plan instead of Cardinal or Gold. Students living off campus may also opt for this plan if they anticipate eating on campus more frequently.
135 swipes per semesterSwipe to spend up to $13.50 per meal in retail locationsSwipe to enjoy a Dining Center Meal for the best valueExpress 2 meals per day from 135
Swipe to spend up to $13.50 per meal in retail locations
Swipe to enjoy a Dining Center Meal for the best value
Express 2 meals per day from 135
$250 Dining Dollars per semester
$2103 per semester
Meals expire at the end of each semester. Dining Dollars rollover from fall and expire at the end of the spring semester. Additional Dining Dollars may be purchased at any time.

Block Plans
2026-2027 Block PlansFor those who need a few meals here or there, Block plans help students save about 20% off the Dining Center door rate. Each meal may also be used as a Flex Meal in retail locations for purchases up to $13.75 in value. Blocks expire at the end of the spring semester. Additional Block plans may be purchased at any time throughout the fall and spring semesters.

Dining Dollars
Anyone who needs a snack or caffeine fix every now and then can save with Dining Dollars on their ISUCard. It’s just like using a debit card but less expensive because there’s a discount for buying 200 or more at a time. Dining Dollars rollover from fall and expire at the end of the spring semester. Additional Dining Dollars may be purchased at any time.