Choosing a place to eat can be challenging for first-year Iowa State students, especially during their first week on campus.
Trevor Peterson, a freshman in industrial engineering, said Union Drive Marketplace’s proximity to his residence hall made finding a place to eat simple.
“It’s super easy and convenient,” Peterson said. “Their tacos are awesome. I love the chicken, and the steak is also pretty good, but the chicken is where it’s at.”
The buffet-style food choices at Union Drive Marketplace make the location a favorite among students, like Owyn Reynolds, another freshman in industrial engineering.
Reynolds said that the Fuse bowls are a go-to for him at Union Drive Marketplace, along with other food options.
“The Fuse bowls have rice, different types of meat and then you can just add on,” Reynolds said. “I usually do that, and add some pasta and pizza. I get a lot of everything because it’s all pretty good.”
Another one of Reynolds’ favorite spots is Friley Windows due to its food options that are different from Union Drive Marketplace.
“They had buffalo popcorn chicken, some mac and cheese, pulled pork and ice cream,” Reynolds said. “They also have chocolate milk, and I love chocolate milk. I drink eight glasses a day.”
Iowa State students have the opportunity to purchase different meal plans based on a certain number of card swipes, or dining dollars, according to the ISU Dining website.
Colten Kemp, a freshman in aerospace engineering, finds convenience in Union Drive Marketplace because it accommodates his meal plan.
“It uses swipes and I don’t have to use the dining dollars,” Kemp said. “I have the Cardinal meal plan and you get unlimited swipes with it, so it’s a lot easier.”
Olivia Donahue, a freshman in aerospace engineering, credits Union Drive Marketplace for its service.
“Their service is pretty good,” Donahue said. “When something runs out, it’s replaced very quickly. The lines never get too long.”
Donahue said that Seasons Marketplace is another adequate dining option, despite preferring Union Drive Marketplace.
“Seasons is good and less busy because it’s on the edge of campus,” Donahue said. “I have a few less picks for food, but overall they’re pretty decent. They have the basics like pizza and pasta, but usually, it’s meat and some sides.”
For Jackson Brown, a freshman in criminal justice, Seasons Marketplace is one of two places he has dined at during his first week.
“Since I just moved here, I’ve only really gone to Seasons because it is by my dorm,” Brown said. “They have really good pork quesadillas. The service is super fast and the line to get in is pretty short.”
Despite mostly dining at Seasons Marketplace, Brown has also been to Friley Windows.
“I’ve been to Friley once, but I’d say that Seasons is better,” Brown said. “It’s just really convenient for me.”
Zach Malo, a senior in data science, has never had a meal plan or eaten at the dining halls during his time on campus.
“It’s just more convenient for me to eat at home, or go to the restaurants in the surrounding area,” Malo said. “Szechuan House over on Lincoln Way is pretty good. I like their Mongolian beef.”
Malo emphasized that the meal plan has never been a good option for him due to living off campus and the cost.
Food plan costs for students can range from $2,062 to $5,364 per semester, depending on the individual plan, according to the ISU Dining website.
“It just doesn’t seem like a good cost to what you’re getting,” Malo said. “I can always make food and pack a lunch.”