Know your grocery shopping options in Ames
August 3, 2011
As a college student, especially one who lives on campus, you might not find it necessary to know about all the grocery stores available to you in Ames. As soon as you’re off campus, though, you might find yourself in need of a little guidance, as there are several grocery stores you can shop at. Read the guide below to learn which one is right for you.
Aldi
Aldi is a hidden gem that not many people know about, but if you want to save money, going there is a must. Aldi carries the most inexpensive milk (under $2 a gallon) in town, and it offers a great selection of generic-brand items like cereal, chips, cheese and chocolate. It also has daily specials, so there’s a little surprise waiting for you each time you go.
Make sure to take a bag with you though, because Aldi doesn’t provide bagging services. If you don’t want to bring your bag, or forget it, you can always empty out one of the cardboard boxes on the shelves and use as your basket.
Hy-Vee
Of course, where there is a helpful smile in every aisle, you can’t go wrong. Check out its website for Hot Deals, recipe ideas and special diet information. Whether your need is for basic ingredients or something exotic like saffron, Hy-Vee can fulfill it. It also has lots of produce, and the wine and spirits will set you up for any weekend celebrations!
Also, if you come in between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. you can usually catch the chef or the Simple Supper Solution crew handing out free samples and demonstrating great recipes that are easy to prepare at home.
Hy-Vee offers just about anything you might need and it has two locations, Whether you’re on the east side of campus or the west, you are set.
Fareway
This is the store where the men or women in the meat department delight in giving you the highest-quality meat they have at affordable prices. Fareway’s deals on produce are just as good as the ones you can find on meat. The store offers online coupons, so check out its website before you head to it. Like Hy-Vee, Fareway has two stores in Ames.
Wheatsfield Cooperative
This local co-op, a community-owned grocery store, offers a variety of bulk products if you need to stock up on food, or if you just feel like purchasing a handful of your favorite trail mix. Wheatsfield provides a wide range of locally grown and organic foods and serves delicious prepared foods in its deli.
Keep your eye out for educational opportunities, too. Wheatsfield hosts classes throughout the year on a wide range of topics related to sustainability, cooking and preparation methods.
Dahl’s
Dahl’s is the newest grocery store in Ames. The store is located in the same buidling that Cub Foods was housed in before it closed last year. In addition to having your run-of-the-mill grocery store staples, like produce, canned food and a meat counter, Dahl’s also has a deli, a bakery and an adjoining dining area.