Campus dining for all ISU students
May 31, 2012
Whether you live on Union Drive, in Fredricksen Court, or in an apartment on campus, convenient and delicious dining is easily accessible. Wherever you go close to the university, there’s one near you.
Iowa State Dining does a fantastic job of offering a variety of facilities that are able to meet all of student dining needs. Whether you’re looking to grab dinner with friends at one of the residential dining centers, grab coffee and read at one of the cafes, or pick up a few groceries at one of the many C-stores. Iowa State Dining has the perfect place for you!
Residential Dining Center
Conversations: Conversations Dining Center is the newly remodeled Oak-Elm dining center that serves the Richardson Court crowd. Meal plans, meal bundles and dining dollars are accepted here.
Conversations provides a la carte breakfast, a coffee bar with lattes to go, a bakery with homemade desserts and ice cream, a grill, a Creations station that allows you to build your own quesadillas and crepes, a deli and the Crisp Greens salad bar.
Seasons: Seasons is Iowa State’s newest dining center. Seasons Dining Center is the result of the 2009 renovation of the Maple-Willow-Larch Dining Center. Seasons accepts meal plans and dining dollars.
Seasons features a variety of dining stations. These stations include Bonsai (stir fry), the Bushel Basket (salad bar), the Cocoa Bean (breakfast and desserts), Hickory’s (home-cooked items and smoked meats), the Olive Branch (Italian items) and Wood Grill (grilled sandwich and side items). In addition to all this, hot breakfast items are served daily.
Knapp-Storms Dining: The Knapp-Storms Dining Center primarily serves the residents of Wallace and Wilson Halls. It accepts meal plans and dining dollars.
Dining in this dining center is buffet-style, and features two hot entrees, one vegetarian entrée, sides and desserts.
Union Drive Community Center: The Union Drive Community Center, or the UDCC, is a close dining option for the residents of Martin, Eaton, Friley and Helser halls. It accepts meal plans and dining dollars.
It also features a variety of different food stations. It is composed of Country Cuisine (country-style items), Wok Your Way (stir-fry), Oregano’s (Italian items), Backyard Grill (grilled items), the Farmer’s Market (salad bar), Fresh Choice Deli (sandwich station), Sweet Temptations (dessert bar) and breakfast items.
Cafes
At any of Iowa State’s cafes, bring in your own cup and save 35 cents on your beverage!
Bookends: Bookends Café is located on the first floor of Parks Library.
Here you can use dining dollars to grab a coffee or specialty drink, smoothie, frappe, hot chocolate or bottled beverage. If you’re feeling hungry, try one of their pastries, bagels, salads, sandwiches, wraps or assorted snacks.
Business Café: The Business Café is a perfect spot for students studying in or around the Gerdin Business Building. This café also accepts dining dollars.
The Business Café is great place to a drink or lunch. Stop in and try one of their coffee or specialty drinks, smoothies, frappes, hot chocolates, salads, sandwiches, wraps, soups or daily hot specials.
Caribou Coffee: Caribou is located right in the hustle and bustle of the Hub. Caribou also accepts dining dollars.
This is the perfect spot to try one of their many coffee, specialty, tea, frappe or smoothie drinks. It also serves a variety of pastries, bagels, snacks, sandwiches, salads and more. Stop in on Mondays for their three-dollar smoothie promotion!
Courtyard Café: The Courtyard Café is conveniently located on the north side of Lagomarcino Hall. Dining dollars are accepted as payment here.
Here you will find espresso drinks, coffee and specialty beverages, soda and smoothies. Salads, sandwiches, soups, pastries, desserts and a daily hot special can also be found here.
Design Café: The Design building is, unsurprisingly, the home of the Design Café. It accepts dining dollars, too.
It offers a selection of coffee and specialty drinks, made-to-order sandwiches, salads and soups.
Gentle Doctor Café: This café is housed in the College of Veterinary Medicine. It accepts dining dollars.
The Gentle Doctor serves coffee and specialty beverages, soups, made-to-order sandwiches, salads, wraps, desserts and pastries.
Hub Grill and Café: The Hub is great place to grab lunch with friends and socialize. It accepts dining dollars.
The Hub offers a selection of grilled items, made-to-order sandwiches, salads, wraps, soups, sides, desserts and fountain beverages. It also provides a 24/7 vending service.
Memorial Union Market and Café: Inside the MU, you will find the MU Market and Café. This café also accepts dining dollars.
It serves coffee and specialty drinks, Freshens smoothies, salads, wraps, sandwiches, sides, pastries and desserts. It also offers Amy’s Organic products and vegetarian meals. In addition, it is also one of campus’ convenience stores.
Restaurants
Clyde’s: Clyde’s is a sports-themed, on-campus restaurant located in the Union Drive Community Center. This low-key hangout accepts meal bundles and dining dollars.
It serves appetizers, sandwiches, salads, grilled items, pizzas, sides, fried items, soups and fountain drinks.
Hawthorne Market and Café: This café-convenience store combination is located in the center of Fredricksen Court. It accepts meal bundles and dining dollars.
It serves Starbucks coffee, as well as specialty drinks, homemade malts, frappes and smoothies. It also offers breakfast, grilled items, deli sandwiches, soups, specialty entrees, pizzas, salads, side dishes and a variety of basic grocery and convenience items.
Memorial Union Food Court: The Memorial Union Food Court provides students with a wide variety of food choices. It accepts meal bundles and dining dollars.
Inside the MU Food Court, you will find CYs and Fries (burgers and fries), Fresh Burrito Works (burritos and quesadillas), Sunset Strips (chicken strips and sandwiches, along with fries), and the World Bistro (hot breakfast, pizza, comfort food, soups, salad bar, panini sandwiches, pastas and sides).
C-Stores
East Side Market: This C-store is located in the Maple-Willow-Larch commons. The East Side Market accepts meal bundles and dining dollars.
It serves hot Godfather’s Pizza, made-to-order sandwiches, frozen beverages, shakes and smoothies. Also, it allows students to pick up basic groceries and convenience items.
South Side Market: This C-store is located in the Wallace-Wilson Commons. It accepts meal bundles and dining dollars.
Here, a student can find breakfast or dinner meal bundles, as well as pizza and items from ISU Dining’s Commissary Kitchen. In addition, the South Side Market also offers basic groceries and convenience items.
West Side Market: Iowa State’s West Side Market is located in the Union Drive Community Center next to Clyde’s. It accepts meal bundles and dining dollars.
In this C-store, a student can pick up a Freshens smoothie, sandwich, soup, pizza, dessert, basic grocery and convenience items, and more.
For additional information and hours, please visit the ISU Dining website at www.dining.iastate.edu.